## Project: 3D Motion Planning

# Required Steps for a Passing Submission:
1. Load the 2.5D map in the colliders.csv file describing the environment.
2. Discretize the environment into a grid or graph representation.
3. Define the start and goal locations.
4. Perform a search using A* or other search algorithm.
5. Use a collinearity test or ray tracing method (like Bresenham) to remove unnecessary waypoints.
6. Return waypoints in local ECEF coordinates (format for `self.all_waypoints` is [N, E, altitude, heading], where the drone’s start location corresponds to [0, 0, 0, 0].
7. Write it up.
8. Congratulations!  Your Done!

## [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/1534/view) Points

### Writeup / README

#### 1. Provide a Writeup / README that includes all the rubric points and how you addressed each one.  You can submit your writeup as markdown or pdf.  

You're reading it! Below I describe how I addressed each rubric point and where in my code each point is handled.

### Explain the Starter Code

#### 1. Explain the functionality of what's provided in `motion_planning.py` and `planning_utils.py`

##### Planning Utils
The `planning_utils.py` file provides two main helper functions, `create_grid` and `a_star`.

The `create_grid` function takes in the data read from the `colliders.csv` file, the drone's altitude and a safety distance to
produce a 2D array marking out the coordinates which the drone should not enter.

The `a_star` function takes in a grid generated by the `create_grid` function, a heuristic to estimate the cost of travelling
between two points, the start coordinate and the end coordinate and returns a path and its associated cost.

##### Motion Planning
The `motion_planning.py` file implements the MotionPlanning class that inherits from the Drone class.

The behaviour of MotionPlanning is similar to that of BackyardFlyer in terms of how its callback functions
are defined, and what it does in each of its state transitions. The main difference lies in the path planning step
that is performed in the `ARMING` state. In this step, MotionPlanning uses a search algorithm and a map to plan out its
path, which is represented and stored as a set of waypoints. The drone will travel through all the waypoints before it
disarms and lands.

### Implementing Your Path Planning Algorithm

#### 1. Set your global home position
*Here students should read the first line of the csv file, extract lat0 and lon0 as floating point values and use the self.set_home_position() method to set global home. Explain briefly how you accomplished this in your code.*

1. Open the file.
2. Read the first line.
3. Extract the `lat0` and `lon0` values and convert to float.
4. Set home position as (`lon0`, `lat0`, 0)

#### 2. Set your current local position
*Here as long as you successfully determine your local position relative to global home you'll be all set. Explain briefly how you accomplished this in your code.*

Use the `global_to_local` function to convert the global position to the local position relative to the global home.

#### 3. Set grid start position from local position
*This is another step in adding flexibility to the start location. As long as it works you're good to go!*



#### 4. Set grid goal position from geodetic coords
*This step is to add flexibility to the desired goal location. Should be able to choose any (lat, lon) within the map and have it rendered to a goal location on the grid.*

In order to select a coordinate from map, additional dependencies were used.
To install these dependencies, run `pip install matplotlib pyproj tilemapbase`.
Using the `global_to_local` function, we can once again convert (lat, lon) to a local point.

#### 5. Modify A* to include diagonal motion (or replace A* altogether)
*Minimal requirement here is to modify the code in planning_utils() to update the A* implementation to include diagonal motions on the grid that have a cost of sqrt(2), but more creative solutions are welcome. Explain the code you used to accomplish this step.*

Four new actions were added to the `Action` Enum in `planning_utils`.

The `valid_actions` function was also refactored to account for new action types.

#### 6. Cull waypoints
*For this step you can use a collinearity test or ray tracing method like Bresenham. The idea is simply to prune your path of unnecessary waypoints. Explain the code you used to accomplish this step.*

The Bresenham algorithm was used to prune the path. We check if the second
waypoint can be pruned. If so, we remove it, and repeat the check and
continue the process until the second waypoint can no longer be pruned
We then move on to the third waypoint and so on until all the intermediate
waypoints have been checked.q

### Execute the flight
#### 1. Does it work?
It works!

### Double check that you've met specifications for each of the [rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/1534/view) points.
  
# Extra Challenges: Real World Planning

For an extra challenge, consider implementing some of the techniques described in the "Real World Planning" lesson. You could try implementing a vehicle model to take dynamic constraints into account, or implement a replanning method to invoke if you get off course or encounter unexpected obstacles.


